Created by Guido van Rossum released in 1991. It is used for web development (server-side), software development,
mathematics, and system scripting. Simple syntax allows developers to write programs with fewer lines than some other
programming languages

- HLL
- Multi-Paradigm
- [Detailed Info](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/index.html)
  Side-note: Every function in python is an object!

# Modules and `pip`

### Modules

Used to import code from other sources to increase program's functionality

- Built-in modules: Directly ships with installation
- External modules: Written by expert developers in the community

###### Features of Modules

1. **Well-tested code** - Increases efficiency and reliability of our programs
2. **Saves time and effort** - We don't have to write everything from scratch.
3. **Organized code, easier to maintain** - Different functionalities are separate into different modules.

### `pip`

Package manager for python. Used for fetching and installation of modules and packages into interpreter form the
internet.

---

# First Python Program

```python
print("Hello World")
```

# Comments in Python

Part of a program which is not executed by interpreter represented by `#` symbol.

```
# This is a single line comment.

'''
This is a multi-line commnent
Also achieved by enclosing lines between 3 double quotes (")
'''
```

##### Benefits of using comments

1. Easier code maintenance.
2. Better understanding of the logic without reading through long documentation.
3. Reduced communication between developers for small doubts.
4. They contribute to a more organized and professional coding style by encouraging consistent commenting practices.

# Escape Sequences:

Escape sequences in Python are special characters or character combinations that are used to represent characters that
are difficult or impossible to type directly. These sequences begin with a backslash`\`followed by a specific character
or combination of characters.

> **Ignoring Escape Sequences**: If you want to include backslashes or other special characters in your string or treat
> escape sequences as normal characters and ignore their special meanings, you can create a raw string by prefixing the
> string with`r`. e.g.

```python
print(r"This is a \n raw string")
```

```Output
This is a \n raw string
```

| Escape Sequence | Description                                                    |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| \n              | Newline - inserts a new line                                   |
| \t              | Tab - inserts a horizontal tab                                 |
| \r              | Carriage Return - returns to the beginning of the current line |
| \\'             | Single Quote - inserts a single quote character                |
| \\"             | Double Quote - inserts a double quote character                |
| \\\             | Backslash - inserts a backslash character                      |
| \b              | Backspace - moves the cursor back by one space                 |
| \f              | Form Feed - inserts a page break                               |
| \v              | Vertical Tab - inserts a vertical tab                          |
| \a              | Alert - produces a system beep sound                           |
| \uXXXX          | Unicode character with 16-bit hex value (XXXX)                 |
| \UXXXXXXXX      | Unicode character with 32-bit hex value (XXXXXXXX)             |
| \xXX            | Character with 8-bit hex value (XX)                            |
| \N{name}        | Unicode character with specified name                          |

# `print()` function :

In Python, the`print()`function is used to display output on the console.

`sep`- Control the separator between the arguments.
`end`- Control the ending character at the end of the printed output.

- The`sep`parameter specifies the separator character between the arguments in the`print()`function. Default character
  is a space ` ` character. Modifiable to any character, integer, or string according to preferences.

```python
print('A', 'B', 'C', sep='') # Disabling the softspace feature
print('30', '07', '2023', sep='-')
print('ruger', 'kali', sep='@')
```

```Output
ABC
30-07-2023
ruger@kali
```

- The`end`parameter specifies the character or string that will be printed at the end of the output. Default character
  is`\n`.

```python
for i in range(0,5):
    print(i, end=", ")
```

```Output
0, 1, 2, 3, 4,
```

Notice comma at the ending, that's how `end` works

# Variables

Container that holds data

```python
string_var = "String"
chr_var = 'e'
var = 100.01
result = True
```

##### Rules for defining variables:

1. Variable names must start with a letter or underscore (`_`).
2. Variable names are case-sensitive
3. Avoid using reserved words.
4. Variable names should not contain spaces or special characters (e.g., !, @, #, $, %).
5. Use `camelCase` or `snake_case` for naming variables.

# Data Types

Specify the type of value a variable holds

Types of data types:

- Built-In data types
- User Defined

##### Built-In Data Types:

1. **Numeric data:** `int`, `float`, `complex

- `complex`

```python
cmp = complex(6,2)
print(cmp)
print(type(cmp))
```

```Output
(6+2j)
<class 'complex'>
```

2. **Text Data Type**: Represented by the `str` class. More about strings at [[2.1 String Basics]]

3. **Boolean Data Type**: Represents truth values and has two constant objects: `True` and `False`. Booleans are used to
   evaluate conditions and control the flow of a program. `True` behaves like the integer 1, and `False` behaves like
   the integer 0.

##### User Defined Data Types:

These data types are created by the programmer based on their specific
requirements, `stacks`, `queues`, `linked lists`, `arrays`, `trees`, `graphs`, and hash tables. These data structures
are used to efficiently store and manipulate data in different scenarios. They play a crucial role when working with
large and dynamic projects.

> `type()` function prints the type of the data types.

```python
var = 100.01
print(type(var))

result = True
print(type(result))
```

```
<class 'float'>
<class 'bool'>
```

---

# Operators in Python

Arithmetic Operator, Relational Operator and Logical Operator

###### Arithmetic Operators

Used to perform mathematical calculations such as addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, modulus, and
exponentiation.

```python
print("Addition: ", 4 + 3)
print("Subtraction: ", 4 - 3)
print("Multiplication: ", 4 * 3)
	 print("Division: ", 4 / 3)
print("Exponentiation: ", 4 ** 3)
```

```Output
Addition:  7
Subtraction:  1
Multiplication:  12
Division:  1.3333333333333333
Exponentiation:  64
```

##### Relational/Comparison Operators

Used to compare two values or variables. These operators evaluate the relationship between the operands and return a
Boolean value (`True` or `False`) based on the comparison result.

```python
x = 5
y = 10
print(f"{x} greater than {y}: ", x > y) 
print(f"{x} less than {y}: ", x < y) 
print(f"{x} greater than or equal to {y}: ", x >= y)
print(f"{x} less than or equal to {y}: ", x <= y)
print(f"{x} equal to {y}: ", x == y)
print(f"{x} not equal to {y}: ", x != y)
```

```Output
5 greater than 10:  False
5 less than 10:  True
5 greater than or equal to 10:  False
5 less than or equal to 10:  True
5 equal to 10:  False
5 not equal to 10:  True
```

##### Logical Operators

Used to perform logical operations on Boolean values or expressions. There are three logical operators:
`and` - returns `True` if both operands are `True`
`or` - returns `True` if at least one operand is `True`
`not` - returns the opposite Boolean value of the operand.

```python
a = True
b = False
print(a and b)  # Output: False
print(a or b)   # Output: True
print(not a)    # Output: False
```

These logical operators are commonly used in conditional statements and decision-making processes to evaluate multiple
conditions. By using logical operators, you can combine multiple conditions and determine the overall truth value based
on the individual conditions.

Exercise 1 - To make a simple calculator [[Exercise 1.py]]

# Typecasting

Conversion of one data type to another data type.

Types:

- Explicit conversion
- implicit conversion

1. **Explicit conversion:** Conversion via programmer's intervention or manually as per the requirements. Can be
   achieved by built-in type conversion functions such as `int()`, `float()`, `str()`, `hex()`, `oct()`

```python
string_v = "13"
int_v = 6
print("Before conversion: ",type(string_v))
print("The sum: ", int(string_v) + int_v)
print("After type conversion: ", type(string_v))
```

```
Before conversion:  <class 'str'>
The sum:  19
After type conversion:  <class 'str'>
```

2. **Implicit conversion:** Data type in python do not have the same level i.e. order of data types is not same in
   python . Some have higher order some have lower. While performing any operations on the variables, one of the
   variable's data type will be changed to higher data type.

==According to the level, low data type is converted into other by the Python interpreter itself (automatically).== This
is called Implicit typecasting.

```python
a= 4
b=13.6
print(a+b, type(a), type(b) ,type(a+b), sep="\n")

```

```Output
17.6
<class 'int'>
<class 'float'>
<class 'float'>
```

# Taking User Input

###### Syntax

```python
varToStoreInpData = input("<String display (optional)>") 
```

Stores values in the form of `string` by default, but input can be typecast based upon requirements.

```python
name = input("Enter your name: ")
num = int(input("Enter a number: "))
decimal = float(input("Enter a number: "))
```

```Output
Enter your name: Manmeet Singh
Enter a number: 12
Enter a number: 234
```
