**What is Exception Handling?**

- Exception handling refers to the process of gracefully handling errors or exceptional events that occur during the
  execution of a program.
- An exception is an error that disrupts the normal flow of program execution.
- When an exception occurs, the program stops executing and jumps to a specific block of code called an exception
  handler or an exception block.
- The exception handler handles the exception, allowing the program to continue executing without crashing.

##### Why do we need Exception Handling?

1. **Error detection and recovery:** It provides a mechanism to handle exceptional situations and continue program
   execution instead of abruptly terminating the program, maintaining program stability

2. **Separation of error-handling code:** Exception handling allows you to separate the code responsible for handling
   errors from the normal code flow.

3. **Program robustness:** Exception handling helps make your program more robust by anticipating potential errors. It
   allows you to take appropriate actions, such as logging errors, or retrying operations.

**Consequences of Not Handling Exceptions**

The program will crash. When an un-handled exception occurs, the program execution is halted, and an error message is
displayed, indicating the type of exception and the line of code where it occurred. This abrupt termination can lead to
data loss, incomplete operations, and an unsatisfactory user experience.

## Exceptions in Python

Table of commonly occurred exceptions in Python

 `Exception`         | The base class for all built-in exceptions.                                                
---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 `SyntaxError`       | Raised when there is a syntax error in the code.                                           
 `IndentationError`  | Raised when the indentation of the code is incorrect.                                      
 `TypeError`         | Raised when an operation or function is performed on an object of inappropriate type.      
 `ValueError`        | Raised when a function receives an argument of correct type but an inappropriate value.    
 `IndexError`        | Raised when a sequence subscript is out of range.                                          
 `AttributeError`    | Raised when an attribute reference or assignment fails.                                    
 `ZeroDivisionError` | Raised when division or modulo operation is performed with zero as the denominator.        
 `NameError`         | Raised when a local or global name is not found.                                           
 `ImportError`       | Raised when an imported module, function, or variable cannot be found.                     
 `OverflowError`     | Raised when the result of an arithmetic operation exceeds the maximum representable value. 
 `FileNotFoundError` | Raised when a file or directory is requested but cannot be found.                          
 `IOError`           | Raised when an I/O operation (such as reading or writing a file) fails.                    
 `RuntimeError`      | Raised when an error is detected that doesn't fall into any other specific category.       
 `KeyError`          | Raised when a dictionary key is not found.                                                 

https://docs.python.org/3/c-api/exceptions.html

## `try-except` block

```python
try:  
	# Potentially erroneous/terminatory code lines
except Exception as e:  
	print(e)
	# Handling statements
```

##### Example

```python
m=int(input("Num 1: "))  
n=int(input("Num 2: "))  
q=int(input("Num 3: "))  
try:  
	print("Result: ", m/(n-q))  
except Exception as e:  
	print(e) # Nor need tobe mentioned explicitly. JUST TO IMPROVE UX  
	print("You made denominator zero! Baka")  

print("Statements will execute as usual despite error occurrences.")  
print("Made possible with Error Handling")
```

```Output
Num 1: 5
Num 2: 5
Num 3: 5
division by zero
You made denominator zero! Baka
Statements will execute as usual despite error occurrences.
Made possible with Error Handling
```

## Handling of different exceptions

```python
try:  
	# Code Statements  
except ValueError:  
	# Code Statements  
except IndexError:  
	# Code Statements
```

Can be done according to requirements. A nested `try-catch` approach is also used in various scenarios.

# `finally` keyword

Used in exception handling to define a block of code that will be executed regardless of whether an exception occurs or
not.

- Used for cleanup
- Regardless of whether an exception occurs or not, it gets executed.
- Most useful in Functions, works even after function `return` keyword.

## Applications of `finally` keyword

```python
try:
    # Statements that may cause an exception
except:
    # Handling exception
finally:
    # Statements to be executed
```

The `finally` block is commonly used for tasks such as closing files or releasing resources or any other critical
operations that should always be performed regardless of exceptions. This helps in preventing resource leaks and
maintaining the integrity of the program.





