#repl
In Python, the `import` keyword is used to make code in one module available in another.

## Python Modules and Packages

A Python module is a file that has a `.py` extension, and a Python package is any folder that has modules inside it *(
or, in Python 2, a folder that contains an `__init__.py` file)*

##### `from` keyword

can import specific packages
we don't have to use dot notation (`pkg.func()`) anymore for those specific imported packages.

> import everything with  `*` *(not recommended)

##### `as` keyword

Packages/Modules can be used as alias throughout the program

```python
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib as m
# import module as alias 
```

##### `dir` keyword

used to view names of all functions and variables defines in specific module. Works with both built-in as well as user
defined cases.

```python
print(dir(math))
```

```Output
['__doc__', '__file__', '__loader__', '__name__', '__package__', '__spec__', 'acos', 'acosh', 'asin', 'asinh', 'atan', 'atan2', 'atanh', 'cbrt', 'ceil', 'comb', 'copysign', 'cos', 'cosh', 'degrees', 'dist', 'e', 'erf', 'erfc', 'exp', 'exp2', 'expm1', 'fabs', 'factorial', 'floor', 'fmod', 'frexp', 'fsum', 'gamma', 'gcd', 'hypot', 'inf', 'isclose', 'isfinite', 'isinf', 'isnan', 'isqrt', 'lcm', 'ldexp', 'lgamma', 'log', 'log10', 'log1p', 'log2', 'modf', 'nan', 'nextafter', 'perm', 'pi', 'pow', 'prod', 'radians', 'remainder', 'sin', 'sinh', 'sqrt', 'tan', 'tanh', 'tau', 'trunc', 'ulp']

```

## Absolute vs Relative Imports

- Absolute imports specify the full path to the module, function or variable to be imported. They are generally
  recommended for their readability and simplicity.

- Relative imports specify the resource to be imported relative to the current location, i.e., the location where the
  import statement is. They can be useful in complex package structures to avoid long import statements

## Behind the Scenes

When you import a module, Python first checks if it's in the list of built-in modules. If not, it then checks if the
module is in the list of `sys.path`, which is a list of directory names. The directories contained in `sys.path` are the
directories that Python will go through to search for modules and packages. The paths in the `sys.path` list are
initialized from the PYTHONPATH environment variable and the installation-dependent defaults

Remember that the import system can be customized. This includes automatically downloading missing packages from PyPI
and importing data files as if they were modules.
