### Local Variables

Local variables are defined within a function or a block. They can only be accessed within the scope of the function or
block in which they are declared. They cease to exist once the function execution is over.

Example:

```python
def some_function():
    local_var = "I'm local"
    print(local_var)

some_function()  # This will print "I'm local"
print(local_var)  # This will give an error because local_var is not defined in this scope
```

### Global Variables

Global variables are defined outside any function or block. They have a global scope, which means they can be accessed
by any function within the program, unless the variable is shadowed by a local variable with the same name.

Example:

```python
global_var = "I'm global"

def some_function():
    print(global_var)

some_function()  # This will print "I'm global"
print(global_var)  # This will also print "I'm global"
```

## Lifetime

The lifetime of a variable refers to the duration for which the variable exists in the memory during the execution of
the program.

- The lifetime of local variables is limited to the function they are declared in. When the function terminates, the
  local variable is destroyed
- The lifetime of global variables begins when they are declared and ends when the program is terminated. They are
  available throughout the life of the program

## Changing Them

You can change the value of a global variable from within a function by declaring it as global within the function.

Example:

```python
global_var = "I'm global"

def change_global_var():
    global global_var
    global_var = "I've been changed"

print(global_var)  # This will print "I'm global"
change_global_var()  # This changes the value of global_var
print(global_var)  # This will print "I've been changed"
```

In the above code, `global_var` is declared as a global variable within the function `change_global_var()`. This allows
the function to change the value of `global_var`.

## Advantages and Disadvantages

- Local Variables:
    - Advantages: They help maintain data integrity as they are only accessible within their scope. You can reuse the
      same variable names in different functions.
    - Disadvantages: Data sharing is not possible between different functions or modules
- Global Variables:
    - Advantages: They can be accessed from any function, reducing the need for parameter passing. They are useful for
      storing constants and shared data.
    - Disadvantages: They can be modified by any function, potentially leading to unpredictable results. Using too many
      global variables can lead to memory issues

While both types of variables have their uses, it's generally advisable to minimize the use of global variables to avoid
potential issues with data integrity and memory usage.

# `global` keyword

To access global scope variables while staying in a specific function

###### Example

```python
a = 10
print("Outside function (Before):", a)

# global keyword
def main():
    global a
    a = 43
    print("Changed Inside function:", a)

main()
print("Outside function (After):", a)
```

```Output
Outside function (Before): 10
Changed Inside function: 43
Outside function (After): 43
```

> [!IMPORTANT] Important
> It's genrally considered good practice to avoid modifying global variables from within functions, otherwise it leads
> to confusions.


