ADTs provide a minimal expected interface and set of behaviors for the data type, but do not specify how the data type is implemented or laid out in memory. The implementation can vary depending on the programming language or the data structure unused 

- **Definition**: An Abstract Data Type (ADT) is a type (or class) for objects whose behavior is defined by a set of values and a set of operations. The definition of ADT only mentions what operations are to be performed but not how these operations will be implemented.
  It does not specify how data will be organized in memory and what algorithms will be used for implementing the operations.
- **Abstraction and Encapsulation**: ADTs are a way of encapsulating data and operations on that data into a single unit, hiding the internal details from the user and only showing the necessary details. This technique is called abstraction.
- **Examples**: Some common examples of ADTs are List, Stack, Queue, Map, Set, etc. Each of these ADTs can be implemented using different data structures, such as arrays, linked lists, trees, hash tables, etc.

> [!NOTE]
> Linked lists, stacks, queues, and other basic data structures serve as building blocks for creating more complex and specialized Abstract Data Types (ADTs) based on specific needs.
> 

- Blueprint
- tells Minimal Requirement along with some operations. 
- abstraction 
# Arrays as ADT
Accessible by an index.
Memory allocation is fixed in arrays (resizing case)

List of minimal required functionalities for arrays in the context of ADTs:
1. **Declaration and Initialization**
2. **Accessing Elements:** Access individual elements using indices.
3. **Traversal:** Traverse the entire array, accessing each element one by one.
4. **Insertion:** At a specified position in the array.
5. **Deletion:** From a specified position in the array.
6. **Search:** Search for a specific element in the array and return its index.
7. **Sorting:** Implement a basic sorting algorithm (e.g., Bubble Sort, Insertion Sort) to sort the elements in the array.
8. **Dynamic Memory Allocation**
9. **Resize:** Resize the array dynamically when needed.


#### Why use Arrays?
Fast, predictable & contiguous memory access and updation. $O(1)\ Complexity$
#### Why don't use Arrays?
- Insertion and deletion is costly (shifting of elements, worst case $O(n)$)
- Resizing (entire array is copied to a new mem loc)

### Static and Dynamic Arrays 
#discuss 

### Memory representation of arrays
Contiguous 

| Index | 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 |
| ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- | ---- |
| Data | 7 | 3 | 1 | 4 |
|Address | 10|  14|  18|  22|
